the US has announced sanctions on
several dozen Israeli settlers involved
in attacks against Palestinians in the
occupied West Bank it's been a surge in
violence since Israel began its war on
October the 7th in recent days Israeli
settlers raided a restaurant and
launched an attack on a Palestinian
father of
six the US state department is
announcing sanctions on several dozen
Israeli settlers involved in attacks
against Palestinians in the occupied
West Bank let's get more
from our White House correspondent
kimbery hit joins us now live from
Washington DC so kimbery according to un
experts Human Rights group all
settlements are illegal under
international law is the US targeting
settlers and settler groups in general
or specific
individuals yeah this uh according to
the Secretary of State in his statement
that has just come down would be
targeting individuals under the
authorities of the United States those
who are not of US citizenship and wish
to travel to the United States if they
are affected by these visa restrictions
would in fact be prevented from
traveling to the United States now uh
this according to the secretary of state
is after many warnings uh the United
States has decided to use its
authorities because it is the view of
the blinket administration that the
Israeli government is simply not doing
enough enough to prevent uh the violent
acts committed by Israeli settlers in
the West Bank against Palestinians and
so in order to prevent that violence uh
and after repeated warnings uh the Biden
Administration decided to take matters
into its own hands and do what it could
with the tools that it had and so uh the
Secretary of State and EST statement
says these attacks are unacceptable and
as a result is announcing these new Visa
restriction policies against dozens of
individuals who undermine peace security
and stability in the West Bank and we
should point out Sammy this also would
include in some cases immediate family
members as well who wish to travel to
the United States we should also point
out that there have been limited attacks
by Palestinians against some Israelis
and those people would also be affected
by these visa restrictions as well the
secretary of state says he is working
with the Palestinian Authority to ensure
that there is stability and Security in
the West
Bank Kimberly how is this impacting us
Israel relations given that some of the
members of the Israeli cabinet are
settlers who given their backing to some
of the violent
settlers yeah well in terms of relations
us and Israeli relations it doesn't
appear that the Biden Administration is
particularly concerned about that right
now it appears that what the Biden
Administration is more concerned about
or is uh feeling is the pressure that
it's under given the fact that there are
such high civilian casualties
particularly in Gaza we have seen all
kinds of demonstrations outside the
white house uh there has been
International outcry there has been
Global demonstrations there has even
been pressure within the Biden in admin
ation there have been letters that have
been sent open letters there have even
been resignations and the President Joe
Biden's feeling the heat uh We've even
seen uh movements such as the abandoned
Biden movement in some swing States
organized by prominent Muslim leaders in
other words for a president who is
trying to win reelection in about a
year's time or less than a year now uh
he's thinking about that he's got
domestic concerns he's not worried about
uh you know settlers in the cabinet or
or what the knesset thinks right now and
how that might play out what he's
thinking about is how he's going to win
reelection and what that might look like
so this is part and parcel of what this
policy is is responding to that pressure
and taking action and so that is what
the uh US president has done but it
shouldn't come as a big surprise given
the fact that he wrote an oped in just
recent weeks in response to the spike
and attacks on uh Palestinians
telegraphing this is exactly what he was
going to do all right let's thank Kimber
halip but let's uh continue